# SudokuSolver A program for solving and playing sudokus of varying sizes.
## Video Demo:
### Description:
The present project is a program writing using python that allows users
to solve 4x4, 9x9 and **some** 16x16 sudokus, that are latter saved to a 
database as a string representation of the game so the user can latter 
try and play the solved sudokus by themselves via a command line interface.
-----
### Project contents:
The content of the folder containing this project are the following:
1. project.py:  
This file contains the code from where users can interact with the program to
solve and play sudokus and read or write to the database where the sudokus 
are stored.
2. sudoku_test.py:  
Contains the code tests for some functions found on the project.py file.
3. sudoku.py:  
Contains a self-made module that is used by project.py to solve the different sizes
sudokus the user may enter to the program.
4. data.py:  
This file contains the code for a self-made module that was created to pass
queries to the sqlite database that was used for this project.
5. requirement.txt:  
Contains the list of third party not built-in python modules used for this project.
6. input.txt:  
This file is used by the program as a way for the user to introduces manually a sudoku
game by filling a template that is created in the file according to the sudoku size the 
user specified (4 by 4 grid if the size was 4, 9 by 9 grid if the size was 9 and a 16 by 16
for a size 16 sudoku).
7. sudoku_table.db:  
The sudoku_table.db file is where all sudokus solved for the first time are saved, each
row of the database contains the next information about a solved sudoku: A string
representation of the unsolved sudoku, string representation of the solved sudoku, 
the number of initial values present in the sudoku, a number generated by the sudoku.py 
module that represents the relative difficulty of solving a sudoku and the size of the sudoku. 
A user can play a specific sudoku from this database by introducing the string representation 
of the unsolved sudoku when asked what sudoku to play by the project.py file.
---
### Design consideration for a sudoku solver:  
When it comes down to try and solve a sudoku (specially one of size 16) using a program,
an important consideration is that the number of possible values that are needed to check
to try and found a solution may end up being quite the big amount for the most difficult 
of sudokus (sudokus with a low value of initial number which means more values are needed 
to be found) and thus the task may end up being a cpu bound one and where the speed of the
programing language of choice and its wide support for things like multithreading ends up being 
critical to found solutions under a reasonable amount of time for a user (an example was 
a 16 by 16 sudoku which took close to 30 minutes to solve using python), for this reason 
I don't believe that this project was not the most ideal for a python
program. 
Other design consideration that was tried to implement, but ended up being a little to 
difficult at least for me to code was the use of more advanced pattern seeking techniques used by
real sudoku player to try and solve the more difficult of sudokus. Some strategies I would love to used
for the project, but I didn't use where the following: The X/Y/Z Wings, The Swordfish, The Jellyfish, 
etc.
---
### Credits:
Program designed and created by Lucas Folch C. from Chile, city of Quilpué for the online 
course CS50’s Introduction to Programming with Python 2023.




